# Yudansha Curriculum

## Overall

This is the material early yudansha should work on to round out the Shotokan instruction. After this curriculum,
students should be expected to self-direct their training.

Students expect to spend at least a year at each rank, but will likely spend more since each dan requires learning
several forms, refining and naturalizing learned mechanics, and a fair amount of study.

**Themes:**

* **Physical:** Application of proper kinesthetics in all kihon, kata, and kumite; refining movements to smaller ranges
* of motion; free-form combinations; learning auxiliary Shotokan kata curriculum; deep exploration of tokuigata; kata
  application synthesis; refinement of advanced partner drills and strategies.
* **Social:** Leadership within the dojo and at special events, such as promotions, gasshuku, and tournaments.
* **Scholastic:** Individualized research into Shotokan, karate-adjacent topics, or relating cross-training concepts into
  Shotokan training.

New black belts should begin working towards ensuring the lessons learned in their kihon are being applied evenly to
their kata and kumite training, the latter being more critical as they advance. They should learn and apply more
advanced footwork and placement in partner drills. Learning the expanded Shotokan kata should be prioritized, starting
with the auxiliary version(s) of their preferred core kata, then branching out to the auxiliary versions of the other
four core kata, and then the remaining kata. Deep study in their favored kata should be undertaken, including variations
(both within and outside of Shotokan), history (as available), and probable applications. The ability to synthesize and
evaluate applications from kata needs to be developed and, ideally, pressure-tested.

Black belts prepare for leadership roles pertaining to the dojo, such as teaching intermediate and advanced student
material, proctoring and judging promotions, leading sessions at gasshuku, judging at tournaments, developing
relationships with other dojo, and so on.

Black belts should direct their own research based on their particular interests, with the intent of enriching their own
karate and bringing their gained knowledge back into the dojo.

## Physical

Yudansha should be working on "improving" their movements. What that looks like may vary by the student's goals and
abilities. At the least, it means working on needing less range of motion to produce good outcomes, increasing their
sense of proprioception during movements, being able to inflect different outcomes based on the same external
technique, and increasing general naturalness and grace in movement.

### Kihon

#### Stances and Footwork

Yudansha are expected to already be familiar with a myriad of stances and footwork typical to Shotokan karate,
including concepts introduced post-JKA by the likes of Kanazawa and Asai. Some new stances are introduced in the
auxiliary kata. Yudansha should be focusing on applying the principles the stances and footwork demonstrate into
their free-form, natural movements, especially in kumite.

#### Techniques

Again, a few new techniques are presented in the auxiliary kata, but yudansha are expected to learn them quickly and
spend their time internalizing how and why they're used.

#### Combination Movements

Combination movements learned at this level are meant to help students learn how to adapt their movements into smaller
ranges of motion or how to inflect different applicative outcomes from similar, or the same, external movement.

### Kata

Yudansha begin the process of learning the auxiliary kata of the Shotokan curriculum. First, a student should focus on
the variations, if any, of their tokuigata (Bassai and Kanku each have one, Jion has two, and Empi has none). Then,
they should progress to the variations of the other core kata. Then they should move on to the remaining forms in the
syllabus. For examination purposes, the more commonly practiced or explored forms are expected for nidans to learn,
but, ultimately, the order is somewhat arbitrary.

While learning the basics of the remaining kata, yudansha should also doing deep research into a single kata at each
rank. This could be the same kata for each level, or it could change. Deep study can take them down any road, the point
is in the practice of not stopping at a shallow or surface level understanding of a form as it is originally presented.
Over their lifetime, a student may end up researching all of the Shotokan forms or only just a few based on interest.
But the idea is to develop the skills to do so.

### Kumite

More advanced kumite should be explored. At the least, this means training beyond dojo shobu and ippon shobu. The
application of learned skills to more practical and pragmatic scenarios should be the primary focus. Possible examples
include dealing with multiple attackers, dealing with assailants with different intentions, dealing with needing to
defend others, being able to defend one's self without injuring their assailant, or dealing with armed assailants.

## Social

Yudansha should be learning how to improve their ability to lead within the dojo, that includes teaching brown belts,
mixed groups, small group seminars, or even an entrire class in the absence of the class' regular sensei. They should
be presiding over mudansha examinations. They're encouraged to attend and, ideally, participate in local events.
Participation could be judging at tournament, organizing seminars, or even just helping to clean up after. Part of the
point is both to set a good example for juniors and to build community.

## Scholastic

Yudansha should be doing self-directed research into any topic. Broad topics to consider include, general kinesthetics,
general self-defense principles, teaching theory, Sino-Japanese and Okinawan history and philosophy, the Japanese
language, and cross-training in other martial arts. As students progress, they should not just be conducting study to
improve themselves, but also thinking of how to elevate others.

## Curriculum by Rank

* [Shodan](dan1.md)
* [Nidan](dan2.md)
* [Sandan](dan3.md)
